this is going to be a very unusual match
but i bet it'll also be spectacular and
intense
in the left corner we have megalodon
this species went extinct about 3
million years ago
but there are good reasons why it's now
a legendary animal
it's the biggest shark that ever existed
and it was a super powerful predator in
its time
and a round of applause for our
contender in the right corner
titana boa this one's way bigger than
any other snake
it lives in the swamps of colombia and
it's the real boss of the area
titanoboa can eat absolutely any animal
it decides to hunt
and it faces no competition it can
swallow a giant turtle
or even a crocodile it looks like a
modern boa
but behaves like an anaconda and that's
a very scary mix but can it stop a giant
shark
let's start by looking at their sizes we
still don't know about megalodon's exact
size
because the only remains of them that
have survived are just
fossilized backbones and teeth but
scientists generally think this monster
was about 50 feet long
so it wasn't just the biggest shark that
ever existed but also
one of the biggest fish of its time its
closest rival
is the modern whale shark but they're
only about 40 feet
the giant titanoboa got so big thanks to
a lucky coincidence
snakes are cold-blooded animals so they
need a warm climate to live and grow in
northeastern colombia is perfect it was
about 90 degrees when titanoboa was
alive this helped it grow to an
incredible
42 feet in length titanoboa could easily
swallow
the longest snake registered in the
guinness book of records
which is only about 25 feet long and
that's a big gulp
so we have 50 feet versus 42 the first
point goes to
megalodon what about weight titanoboa is
about 2500 pounds
that's heavier than a small car
including the passengers
but it might be even heavier if you run
into titan ebola
after it's had lunch in that case you
can add a few hundred pounds more from
the turtle
or the alligator that it just swallowed
if you put titanoboa on some very large
scales
you'd need five giant anacondas on the
other side to balance them out
but megalodon is an incredible 50 times
heavier than titanoboa
the average adult female weighs between
27 and 59
times that's as much as an empty boeing
737 airplane
and that's without carry-on luggage
either luckily enough
megalodon can't fly so obviously
megalodon wins
in the weight category that's one more
point to the ancient shark
although having such a large weight
makes it difficult for the shark to move
and also means it's a little clumsy
which leads us to our next category
speed and agility megalodon can swim at
about 16 feet per second
that's enough to make it the ultimate
predator but it's still slower than
plenty of other species
if megalodon was swimming in a pool and
usain bolt was running along next to it
he would be twice as fast his top speed
is almost 40 feet per second
now a sailfish which is the fastest sea
creature can reach about 100 feet per
second
megalodon's size and weight make it turn
really slowly
just the same as a large truck so when
it attacks the shark has
only one chance to strike if it misses
it has to go around for a second attempt
this gives its prey more than enough
time to run away
titanoboa isn't that fast either
especially on land
but when the giant snake is in the water
it can swim at a speed of up to 12 miles
per hour
not much but enough for it to escape
from megalodon if it needs to
it's learned to swim so well because
water is its main hunting ground
and because titanoboa is a snake duh
it also has incredible mobility it can
wriggle around and change direction
very quickly so it can easily dodge
megalodon's bite
so here's the first point for titanoboa
the score is two to one in favor of
megalodon
next section fighting skills megalodon
is incredibly smart
it can change tactics depending on what
kind of prey it's hunting
scientists have found teeth markings
from megalodon on some whale fossils
these show that the giant sharks aim
their bites at their prey's vital body
parts
to take them out quickly other remains
of megalodon's victims have
multiple fractures this is because
megalodon performs a super powerful ram
attack
that can knock almost anything out in
fact
this 50-ton beast can easily smash
through concrete walls
so megalodon's opponents don't really
stand a chance
some of them prefer to first damage the
tails and fins of the whale they're
hunting
this stops it from escaping letting the
huge predator
finish off its defenseless victim now
what can titanoboa do in response
the giant snake isn't poisonous but this
doesn't stop it from hunting prey
up to four meters long its bite has a
very special design
the structure of its teeth and jaws lets
titanoboa really clamp down on the body
of its prey
so there is no escape when hunting
titanoboa uses similar
tactics to an anaconda or a boa by that
i mean it uses its powerful muscles and
weight to stop
its prey from moving it deploys all of
its strength to take away the animal's
energy
making it helpless so titanoboa is not
only
really speedy and agile it can also
fight its corner pretty well it's
definitely earned a point
in the fighting skills section the score
is now two to two that's a tie going
into the final round
we've got one more section before we
find out which of these ancient monsters
will win
up now is fighting tools
apart from its ramming power megalodon
has something else up its sleeve
even though it really doesn't have arms
or wears a coat
let's take a look at its jaw its teeth
are about
seven inches long that's an absolute
record for all known shark species in
the world
megalodon has about 250 of these deadly
pointy things
arranged in five rows they're also
really sharp
which help to penetrate the thick skin
of big animals like whales
megalodon's jaws are six and a half feet
wide
and it has one of the strongest bites of
any animal
on the planet not only are they super
dangerous
megalodon's teeth are also really
valuable one of these ancient
incisors was once found in western
australia
the location where it was dug up was
kept secret but this didn't stop
intruders from stealing it
it's probably in someone's private
collection by now and sadly
scientists miss the chance to learn
something new about megalodon
titanoboa also has a mean set of teeth
they're thin and pointed like needles
they bend inwards in the snake's jaw
like
fishing hooks this little feature helps
titaniboa get a grip on its prey
and prevent the slightest chance of it
running or swimming away
if the animal tries to pull itself free
it will only hurt itself even more
and remember that titanoboa is
incredibly agile
so it can strike with that bite at an
incredible speed
now it's time for the fight itself
titanoboa never swims in the open sea
but here
megalodon has gotten lost and ended up
in a shallow swampy area
off the coast of colombia in water like
this
meg ladon finds it even harder to move
around
it could bite titanopola just once and
the fight would be over
but because the shark moves so much
slower than the snake
for now he doesn't get the chance to
snap those enormous jaws
titanoboa starts attacking megalodon but
it can't do much damage to that thick
skin with its sharp but very short teeth
eventually meg ladon gets its chance and
ends the fight with a single bite
it turns out that those huge teeth were
what really mattered in this competition
chew on that for a while that's three to
two
and a victory to the giant shark